---
title: 
description: Welcome to Health Connect
navigation: 
icon: i-lucide-house
---

## Introduction
InterSystems HealthShare Health Connect is a healthcare integration engine that delivers high-volume transaction support, process management, and monitoring to support mission critical applications.

At the heart of Health Connect is a high performance, multi-model data engine called IRIS that seamlessly handles multiple forms of data at high speed. Health Connect easily scales from serving small clinics to handling the transaction volumes of the largest and most complex healthcare delivery systems in the world.

## Tangible benefits
- Proven rapid scalability and fast implementation beyond competitor benchmarks
- Zero-downtime stability and reliability for even the largest IDNs with thousands of connections and millions of daily message transactions
- Faster interface development to save costs, with additional savings from eliminating separate vendor fees.

## Capabilities
- Interoperability by design
- Mirroring with fast failover recovery
- Source control for HL7 schemas
- Intuitive drag-and-drop HL7 schema editing
- A flexible, adaptable security model and more

## Overview
The purpose of this interface engine is to enable our Application Integration team to connect systems, so that they can transform and route messages between them. To connect systems, they develop, configure, deploy, and manage productions, which integrate multiple software systems.

An interoperability production is an integration framework for easily connecting systems and for developing applications for interoperability. A production provides built-in connections to a wide variety of message formats and communications protocols. Developers can easily add other formats and protocols – and define business logic and message transformations either by coding or using graphic interfaces.

Productions provide persistent storage of messages, which allow you to trace the path of a message and audit whether a message is successfully delivered. The elements in a production are known as business hosts.

There are three kinds of business hosts, with different purposes as follows:

- Business Service connects with external systems and receive messages from them. Business services relay the messages to other business hosts in the production;
- Business Process allows the developer to define business logic, including routing and message transformation. Business processes receive messages from other business hosts in the production and either process the requests or forward them to other business hosts; and
- Business Operation connects with external systems and send the messages to them. Business operations receive messages from other business hosts in the production and typically send them to external systems.

Business hosts communicate with each other via messages. All messages are stored in an IRIS database and can be seen via the Management Portal.
